| [home page](https://phantirak.github.io/pearry-portfolio/) | [visualizing debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [critique by design](critique-by-design) | [final project I](final-project-part-one) | [final project II](final-project-part-two) | [final project III](final-project-part-three) |

# The final data story
From final project part I where I developed the outline and draft my sketch to part II where I started to take the reader through my story wireframes and seek for feedback, now we reach the final part of the story! In this project part III, I will take you through all the revision and decision I have made to reach my final version. And here is the link to my final story **“Middle-Income Trap, Thailand”!**

[Link to my final story](https://carnegiemellon.shorthandstories.com/middle-income-trap-thailand/index.html)


# Changes made since Part II
In this final project part III, I cooperate the feedback from user researches and from professor to improve my story. I have grouped my adjustments into four difference topics below.

**1. The graph vistualization**
I have received positive feedback about my visualization choices. However, there are comments about the the title & subtitle, the position, size, and color. I first prioritize changing the title and subtitle so that audiences can just easily understand the story through the visuals without having read the analysis content. Then I try to reorganize the position and size so that the graph can be easily seen, not buried with description and the analysis. Lastly, I make sure that the position is alignment with the text analysis/content at the eye level. I also revisit some colors but it’s minority because most of my visualization, I’m using teal to signify Thailand and others are grey. 

**2. The images & quotation**
My first revision on the image is to change the pictures at the opening page (the title page). Initially, I have the image of beautiful Thai temples and some of my interviewees thought that my topic is about promoting Thailand’s tourism. Hence, I decided to change the image to Bangkok city where you can see the disparity Thai people’s living standard (condominiums contrasing with the slums) so it can reflect the economic problem better. The second improvement about images is to add the references. I revise all of my images and make sure that they come from copyright-free sources e.g. Unsplash.com

For the quote part, I have removed the header/title of the quote e.g. “Macro Economic Perspective”, suggested by professor since the quote has already reflects the title by itself unlike graph/chart that you need title for clarification. I also work on putting the reference/source of the quote as well.

**3. The story transition**
I put more connecting section and narrative walkthrough the story step by step to make sure that the audience will not get lost will all the graphs and information and they are clear with my key messages in each section. Here, I also use technique “bold the text” for the important messages and highlighting the key takeaway. According to the feedback specifically on the call-to-action transition, I use more actionable words such as “Policy Recommendation for Thai Government Agencies” instead of just explicitly say “Call to action”. 

**4. The content**
My priority is to work on the call-to-action part. Instead of only having a click that directy link people to the research paper, I try to add the data visualization, specifically on R&D comparison bar graph and human development line graph, and detailed analysis that support my policy recommendation so that my call to action is solid and concrete enough to persuade the policy makers. In addition, the feedback I received in part II also mentioned about there are some duplicate in the Central Bank's monetary policy section with the previous sections on “key factors to overcome the middle-income trap”. So, I streamline and condense the story and put them under “Innovation Financing Policy” of my policy recommendation section. I also eliminate the “Improving Infrastructure” in the recommendation since it currently does not support by presented graphs and focus more on “Innovation Financing Policy” and “Reform the labor market” part. 

As one of my interviewees comment about the confusion between middle income trap and inequality income, I then work on revision of the wording used in the analysis to make sure it focuses on the middle-income issue and not leading to inequality in income. In addition, I need to add disclaimers about the economic context of each country when making the comparison between countries as suggested feedback. Lastly, I add some description/subtitle for technical words and illustrate more on the surrounding/consequence context. For example, after I tell the audience that Thailand is in the middle-income trap, I will then them what is the definition of it and why it’s negatively impact Thai economy. And to make sure that the content is clear and not too text heavy, I split the sentences to the bullet point.


## The audience
Intitially my target audience I specified in Final Project Part I is the financial government agency i.e., Central Bank of Thailand. However, after reading through many research papers, I found out that in order to equip the country into high-income status, solely depend on the financial policy is not enough. You need to have other essential elements that go together such as skill development/ labor market reform to achieve the structural transformation and economic growth. 

To illustrate, even though the Central Bank issue the policy/ measures such as the low interest rate to support businesses’ innovation but if the workers are unskilled and labor productivity are still low, it’s impossible to increase the competitiveness of the country and achieve the “Innovation-led Economy” goal. So instead of scoping my target audience to only financial agencies, I would like to broaden my target audience to other associated Thai government agencies such as Ministry of Labour. This is because to overcome this middle-income trap structural problem we need the strong cooperations across organization to create the meaningful and impact economic movement.


## Final design decisions
In every key message I put in the story, I try to have the data visualization or quote from reliable source such as the World Bank and IMF etc. to support my statement. So, it’s more concreate and solid. This is because my target audiences are policy makers specific in government agencies, hence, numbers and sources of data are very important, especially when I want my visualization to create impact and persuade enough for call to action.

As a result, my design decision is mainly depending on the key message I would like to convey. What I learned from this class is that each type of chart has its own characteristic. If we select the chart wisely it can create the impact and powerful pursuasiveness to the audience. For example, if I would like to compare Thailand’s ranking with other countries, I would use bar chart. But if I want to emphasize the portion of economic variables in Thailand itself, I will use donut chart. If I would like to see the Thailand’ competitiveness development overtime compares with peers in the region, I would use the line racing chart. Hence, picking the right chart for the key message is very crucial.

The color technique is also very importance. What I learned from this class is that you can use color for symbolic the sentiment, distinguish the elements or even highlight the trends and pattern. In this project, I specifically use green teal to signify Thailand and grey for other countries. And I try to be consistence across the story so the audience can easily and intuitively comprehend, with just one glance at the visualization, that the graph pertains to Thailand's context. My background is mostly black or white so the audience can easily read the content. Additionally, I am meticulous in selecting display pictures/images that effectively convey my messages as well as the quote.


## References
1. “World Tourism Organization.” Global and regional tourism performance. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.unwto.org/tourism-data/global-and-regional-tourism-performance.
2. “World Tourism Organization.” Global and regional tourism performance. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.unwto.org/tourism-data/global-and-regional-tourism-performance.
3. “Overview, Thailand.” World Bank. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/thailand/overview#1.
4. “Open Government Data of Thailand.” imgHeader. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://data.go.th/dataset.
5. “Travel & Tourism Economic Impact: World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC).” World Travel & Tourism Council. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://wttc.org/research/economic-impact.
6. “Can Thailand Escape the Middle-Income Trap?” Knowledge at Wharton. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/can-thailand-escape-middle-income-trap/.
7. Paus, Eva. “Escaping the Middle-Income Trap: Innovate or Perish.” Asian Development Bank. Asian Development Bank, March 3, 2017. https://www.adb.org/publications/escaping-middle-income-trap-innovate-or-perish.
8. “Thailand , World Bank Data.” Data. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://data.worldbank.org/country/TH.
9. “Middle Income Countries.” World Bank. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/mic.
10. “How to Avoid the 'Middle-Income Trap'.” ODI. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://odi.org/en/insights/how-to-avoid-the-middle-income-trap/#:~:text=Most%20low%2Dincome%20countries%20.
11. Triki Taffere Tesfachew Jonathan Said Melat Tekaligne, Chema, Taffere Tesfachew Governance Advisor, Jonathan Said Head of Inclusive Growth and Private-Sector Development Practice, and Melat Tekaligne Advisor. “How Can African Countries Avoid the Middle-Income Trap?” Institute for Global Change. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://institute.global/advisory/how-can-african-countries-avoid-middle-income-trap.
12. “Policy Brief, Thailand.” GEM Global Entrepreneurship Monitor. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.gemconsortium.org/economy-profiles/thailand-2.
13. Benjamin, Daniel, Kristen Cooper, Ori Heffetz, and Miles Kimball. “Measuring the Essence of the Good Life.” IMF. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/fandd/issues/2021/12/Measuring-Essence-Good-Life-Benjamin-Cooper-Heffetz-Kimball#:~:text=A%20major%20reason%20the%20HDI,in%20a%20reasonably%20comparable%20way.
14. “Thailand Needs to Innovate to Avoid 'Middle Income Trap'.” UNCTAD, September 17, 2015. https://unctad.org/news/thailand-needs-innovate-avoid-middle-income-trap.
15. “Working Paper Series - Financial Reforms and Innovation: a Micro-Macro Perspective.” European Central Bank. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/pdf/scpwps/ecb.wp2544~004fc38090.en.pdf.
16. “Skills Development.” World Bank. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/skillsdevelopment.
17. “The Role and Impact of Infrastructure in Middle-Income Countries.” Asian Development Bank. Accessed February 28, 2023. https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/359136/ewp-518.pdf.


# Final thoughts
## Project reflections
When I first draft my outline, I did not plan to have many data visualizations but more focusing on the story. But as the process went on part II, I dig into more thought and trying to emphasize as if I were a reader i.e. policy maker, what I would like to see. And that’s led to more data visualizations as I think those visualizations are solid evidence to convince my statement and my call to action. I enjoy utilizing many tools that I have never used it before such as Shorthand, Flourish etc. and amazed of how easy-to-use, yet impactful they are. My hardest part of this project is in Part II where I had to implement everythings I have on paper into the actual wireframe i.e. shorthand and asking for feedback from expertises in both economic field and data analytic fields. The user research provides me a very valuable comments and hence, I’ll be able to compete all my jigsaws and produce more complete story in Part III.
In summary, this project allows me to utilize all the building blocks and techniques since day one in class along the way to accomplish this final story. The most important lessons that I have learned here is to ask, “What is your key message?” and “Does your visualization conveys that message effectively?” Now, I am able to critique the visualizations, breaking down into components, and to provide a clear constructive feedback on what works well and what can be improved. This accomplishment aligns with my goal, as stated on my portfolio page, that is to create the visualization that can bring everyone to the same page, regardless of who they are and where they are from.

## One minute Pitch reflection
One minute presentation is not an easy task. From more than ten graphs and images, which one should I pick? How can I effective get them to resonate with my story and follow along on my presentation especially when my content is very complex and has a specific target audience? I decided to think back to day one when I first came up with the idea for this topic. It started from my curiosity! Why Thailand is so popular, but we are still so poor! And this is how I planned to get the attention from the audiences. I then took them through the middle-income trap journey, how to overcome such trap and ended with policy recommendation. I have prepared the script and practices pitching million times. Unfortunately, due to technical difficulties on the day of my presentation, I was unable to communicate all the messages I had planned to share with the class. Despite this setback, I did gain valuable experience in handling unexpected situations, which is another valuable lesson that I took away from this class.
